DynamoDB is a non-relational database created by AWS.
For a database, DynamoDB has relatively few knobs and dials for configuration.
In DynamoDB, you create one table.
With relational databases, we typically think of a database as a collection of tables.
But in DynamoDB, one database consists of just one table.
The tables you create in DynamoDB have one primary key and an optional sort key.
You can create additional indices on the table so that you
can in effect have multiple primary or sort keys on the table.
That's the entire data model for DynamoDB.
It is simple and straightforward,
but yet still quite powerful.
The read and write throughput of DynamoDB is measured
and charged by the number of operations per second.
You decide how much reading and writing you'll be doing per second,
and simply set those values on the table or index.
You also have options to pay on demand for this usage,
so that you don't have to pick a number or you can let the capacity auto scale over time.
Again, compared to a traditional relational database,
this is drastically simpler.
Don't let the simplicity fool you though.
DynamoDB is quite powerful and suitable for many workloads.
DynamoDB can scale to handle tens of millions of requests a
second while automatically scaling up and down as required.
DynamoDB is resilient by default.
AWS runs the service across
multiple availability zones and takes care of replicating your data,
so that any single availability zone failure would not impact your DynamoDB tables.
This is a big deal.
You don't have to think or worry about configuring DynamoDB to be Multi-AZ.
You also don't have to decide on the cost trade-offs,
since the cost of running in
multiple availability zones is baked into the base price of the service.
Speaking of cost, while some of this functionality may sound expensive,
it is often the case that DynamoDB is actually
cheaper than a server-based database such as RDS.
This is because DynamoDB lets you pay only for what you use,
whereas a dedicated server or servers cost you money 24 hours a day,
365 days a year,
366 days in a leap year.